v5.x/Sandbox/UsefulExamples/Readme.md, before:

# SciChart: Useful Examples

The solution SciChart.Sandbox.sln contains a number of useful examples and user provided solutions. We update this list from time to time. 

### Build instructions

1. Ensure NuGet feed is set in Visual Studio options 

2. Build and run the SciChart.Sandbox.sln

3. Double click on the example you want to run. It will start in a new window. 

### Running the app 

With the app running, search or double click the exmaple you want to run. This will start in a new window. 

![SciChart useful examples](https://github.com/ABTSoftware/SciChart.WPF.Examples/blob/master/v5.x/Sandbox/Images/useful-examples.JPG?raw=true)

# Example Directory 

### 3D Chart Change Properties Dynamically

A sandbox application showing how to dynamically change the color of Gridlines, text and axis labels in a 3D SciChart WPF Chart

### Animated DataSeries

A simple example demonstrating how to animate a dataseries 

### Axis MVVM with Scrollbar 

Demonstrates how to add a Scrollbar to an Axis in MVVM with Scichart WPF Charts 

### Binding AnnotationViewModel to TextBox 

Demonstrates how to bind the value of a VerticalLineAnnotation in X1 to a TextBox on the chart using MVVM

### Chart Printing Multi Pane Charts

Sandbox demonstrating how to export or print multiple charts to a single bitmap 

### Chart Printing Tests

Sandbox showing how to print to bitmap, print and export to XPS on a SciChart WPF Chart

### Column Series No Gaps 

Demonstrates how to have a column series in SciChart WPF without gaps between the columns

### Composite Annotations in MVVM

Demonstrates how to create a custom CompositeAnnotation in MVVM using the SciChart WPF MVVM API 

### Custom Modifiers Sandbox 

A sandbox for custom modifiers showing how to create your own ChartModifierBase derived classes to zoom, pan, inspect data-points, show custom legends, select data-points and select and drag a series

### Custom PointMarker and Legend

Demonstrates a complex customized Legend via LegendItemTemplate in SciChart WPF Charts, including visibility checkboxes, sliders and color pickers

### Custom Series MVVM Example

Demonstrates how to create a CustomRenderableSeries using the MVVM API in SciChart WPF 

### Custom CompositeAnnotation Example

Demonstrates how to create a CustomCompositeAnnotation in SciChart WPF

### Hit-Test and get Point 3D

Demonstrates how to use the Hit-Test 3D API to retrieve a Point 3D by mouse click

### Hit-Test to Add Annotations on a Chart

Demonstrates how to use the Hit-Test API to add VerticalLineAnnotations to a chart 

### Implicit Styles

Demonstrates 2D SciChart WPF Charts styled using Implicit Styles

### Lab Style Charts

Demonstrates a Matlab styled chart using SciChart WPF 3D Charts and the theme API 

### LabelProvider: DoubleAxis as DateTimeAxis 

Demonstrates how to use the LabelProvider to format a number as a date using the NumericAxis in SciChart WPF 3D Charts

### Market Profile Trading Example

Demonstrates how to add a Market Profile (Histogram chart) into a candlestick / financial chart using SciChart WPF Charts. 

### Multi Line DateTimeAxis Labels

Demonstrates a SciChart WPF Chart with DateTimeAxis and two rows of labels, one to show time and the other date

### Resampling of Grid Data Series 3D

Demonstrates big data-sets in GridDataSeries3D using resampling (downsampling) in a SciChart WPF 3D Chart

### Scrollbars above Axis

Demonstrates how to place a scrollbar above an axis in a SciChart WPF Chart 

### Scrolling Strip Chart

Demonstrates a realtime scrolling strip chart in WPF using SciChart 

### Strings on XAxis 

Demonstrates how to put string labels on the XAxis of a WPF Chart using the LabelProvider feature in SciChart

### Sweeping ECG Trace

Demonstrates a realtime SciChart WPF Chart with a sweeping ECG trace, which starts on the left and wraps around when reaching the right of the chart

### Thresholded Series

Demonstrates how to shade the background of a line series in a color depending on a threshold using SciChart WPF

### Ticklines with Uniform Grid 

Demonstrates how to have Axis Ticklines in a SciChart WPF Chart with 5mm spacing on the screen always, regardless of zoom 

### Touch Input Sandbox

A sandbox application with a SciChart WPF Chart allowing you to test out all the different zoom, pan and tooltip options on a touch screen. Also includes a custom Multi Touch ChartModifierBase example

### Two Charts, YAxis with same zero line

WORK IN PROGRESS
Demonstrates how to have two SciChart WPF charts, with YAxes with the same zero line, yet same scale

### Zoom Extents after MVVM Series Changed

Demonstrates how to Animate ZoomExtents on a SciChart WPF Chart after a series is added dynamically via MVVM 

### Zoom Extent on Visibility Changed

Demonstrates how to Animate ZoomExtents on a SciChart WPF Chart after series visibility changes

Commit message:

Added sample to demonstrate UseAlternativeFillSource and EnableForceWaitForGPU flags which eliminate flicker on some PCs when DirectX enabled

v5.x/Sandbox/UsefulExamples/Readme.md, after:

# SciChart: Useful Examples

The solution SciChart.Sandbox.sln contains a number of useful examples and user provided solutions. We update this list from time to time. 

### Build instructions

1. Ensure NuGet feed is set in Visual Studio options 

2. Build and run the SciChart.Sandbox.sln

3. Double click on the example you want to run. It will start in a new window. 

### Running the app 

With the app running, search or double click the exmaple you want to run. This will start in a new window. 

![SciChart useful examples](https://github.com/ABTSoftware/SciChart.WPF.Examples/blob/master/v5.x/Sandbox/Images/useful-examples.JPG?raw=true)

# Example Directory 

### 3D Chart Change Properties Dynamically

A sandbox application showing how to dynamically change the color of Gridlines, text and axis labels in a 3D SciChart WPF Chart

### Animated DataSeries

A simple example demonstrating how to animate a dataseries 

### Axis MVVM with Scrollbar 

Demonstrates how to add a Scrollbar to an Axis in MVVM with Scichart WPF Charts 

### Binding AnnotationViewModel to TextBox 

Demonstrates how to bind the value of a VerticalLineAnnotation in X1 to a TextBox on the chart using MVVM

### Chart Printing Multi Pane Charts

Sandbox demonstrating how to export or print multiple charts to a single bitmap 

### Chart Printing Tests

Sandbox showing how to print to bitmap, print and export to XPS on a SciChart WPF Chart

### Column Series No Gaps 

Demonstrates how to have a column series in SciChart WPF without gaps between the columns

### Composite Annotations in MVVM

Demonstrates how to create a custom CompositeAnnotation in MVVM using the SciChart WPF MVVM API 

### Custom Modifiers Sandbox 

A sandbox for custom modifiers showing how to create your own ChartModifierBase derived classes to zoom, pan, inspect data-points, show custom legends, select data-points and select and drag a series

### Custom PointMarker and Legend

Demonstrates a complex customized Legend via LegendItemTemplate in SciChart WPF Charts, including visibility checkboxes, sliders and color pickers

### Custom Series MVVM Example

Demonstrates how to create a CustomRenderableSeries using the MVVM API in SciChart WPF 

### Custom CompositeAnnotation Example

Demonstrates how to create a CustomCompositeAnnotation in SciChart WPF

### Eliminating Flicker in DirectX Renderer

Some users report flicker when the DirectX renderer is enabled. The [published workaround here](https://www.scichart.com/questions/question/flickering-chart) is implemented in this example to show you how to do it. 

### Hit-Test and get Point 3D

Demonstrates how to use the Hit-Test 3D API to retrieve a Point 3D by mouse click

### Hit-Test to Add Annotations on a Chart

Demonstrates how to use the Hit-Test API to add VerticalLineAnnotations to a chart 

### Implicit Styles

Demonstrates 2D SciChart WPF Charts styled using Implicit Styles

### Lab Style Charts

Demonstrates a Matlab styled chart using SciChart WPF 3D Charts and the theme API 

### LabelProvider: DoubleAxis as DateTimeAxis 

Demonstrates how to use the LabelProvider to format a number as a date using the NumericAxis in SciChart WPF 3D Charts

### Market Profile Trading Example

Demonstrates how to add a Market Profile (Histogram chart) into a candlestick / financial chart using SciChart WPF Charts. 

### Multi Line DateTimeAxis Labels

Demonstrates a SciChart WPF Chart with DateTimeAxis and two rows of labels, one to show time and the other date

### Resampling of Grid Data Series 3D

Demonstrates big data-sets in GridDataSeries3D using resampling (downsampling) in a SciChart WPF 3D Chart

### Scrollbars above Axis

Demonstrates how to place a scrollbar above an axis in a SciChart WPF Chart 

### Scrolling Strip Chart

Demonstrates a realtime scrolling strip chart in WPF using SciChart 

### Strings on XAxis 

Demonstrates how to put string labels on the XAxis of a WPF Chart using the LabelProvider feature in SciChart

### Sweeping ECG Trace

Demonstrates a realtime SciChart WPF Chart with a sweeping ECG trace, which starts on the left and wraps around when reaching the right of the chart

### Thresholded Series

Demonstrates how to shade the background of a line series in a color depending on a threshold using SciChart WPF

### Ticklines with Uniform Grid 

Demonstrates how to have Axis Ticklines in a SciChart WPF Chart with 5mm spacing on the screen always, regardless of zoom 

### Timeline Control

An example showing how to create a sort of a timeline control using SciChart WPF 

### Touch Input Sandbox

A sandbox application with a SciChart WPF Chart allowing you to test out all the different zoom, pan and tooltip options on a touch screen. Also includes a custom Multi Touch ChartModifierBase example

### Two Charts, YAxis with same zero line

WORK IN PROGRESS
Demonstrates how to have two SciChart WPF charts, with YAxes with the same zero line, yet same scale

### Zoom Extents after MVVM Series Changed

Demonstrates how to Animate ZoomExtents on a SciChart WPF Chart after a series is added dynamically via MVVM 

### Zoom Extent on Visibility Changed

Demonstrates how to Animate ZoomExtents on a SciChart WPF Chart after series visibility changes
